= Phylo library =

The Phylo library is about phylogenetic trees and multiple sequence alignments. For an overview and explanation of Phylo classes, please refer to the [http://protein.bio.unipd.it/victor_doxygen/index.html Doxygen documentation]. The key items in the Phylo library are the distance matrix, phylogenetic tree and multiple sequence alignment.

In order to build a distance matrix from an alignment, a distance metric must be specified. There are three available metrics:
* Percent identity: distance for each pair of sequences is estimated as one minus the percent identity divided by one hundred, after a global alignment is performed
* Levensthein distance: distance is estimated as the minimum number of substitutions (without taking in account properties of the residues, such as mutation probability)
* Feng-Doolittle distance: distance metric proposed by Feng and Doolittle

Phylogenetics tree can be built from a distance matrix using a clustering algorithm. There are three available clustering algorithms:
* UPGMA
* Fitch-Margoliash
* Neighbor Joining

Multiple sequence alignments can be built from set of sequences. There are two multiple sequence alignment algorithms supported:
* Feng-Doolittle
* ClustalW



== Building a phylogenetic tree ==
'''phyltree''' allows to generate a phylogenetic tree from an alignment.

 phyltree --in path/to/alignment.fasta

The behaviour of the program can be tuned with optional parameters (such as the distance metrics or the clustering algorithm). The complete documentation for these additional parameters can be viewed with

 phyltree -h

By default, the resulting phylogenetic tree is printed on screen. For more information, see the [[Tutorial]].



== Building a multiple alignment ==
'''fengdoolittle''' is an implementation of the omonymous multiple sequence alignment algorithm. '''clustalw''' is a clone of the original (but now unsupported) ClustalW program, an improved version of Clustal which allows to build a multiple sequence alignment from a set of sequences using some advance features, such as position-specific gap opening and extension penalties, sequence weighting and use of different substitution matrices as the alignment procedes.

The easiest way to compute a multiple sequence alignment is by running the command:

 clustalw --in path/to/alignment.fasta -m /path/to/substitution_matrix.dat

which will output the resulting multiple alignment on the screen. The behaviour of the alignment can be changed trhough optional paramters. For a complete reference, launch

 clustalw -h

For a complete documentation, see the [[Tutorial]].
